♪ ♪
[gene groaning]
[humming]
[gasps]
Good morning, family.
Someone's in a good mood.
Gene, you got a real spring
in your sneaker.
-And a stench in his bench.
-Thank you.
So, you know how I signed up
For the ultimate online
songwriting showdown?
Online songwriting contest.
That's probably
how the beatles got started.
Mm-hmm.
Well, last night in my dream,
I wrote the perfect song
from beginning to end,
And I'm gonna submit it.
-Wow. Really?
-Yeah.
Turns out my subconscious
is super helpful.
-And I'm assuming
also super tan.
-That's great.
-How does the song go?
-Yeah. Give us a taste.
[vocalizing]
Uh... Oh, my god,
I can't remember!
Wait. [vocalizes]
No, that's not it. Shoot.
Didn't you have that other song
you were working on?
The one about zebras
wearing bras or something?
"brazebras"? Ah, I don't
like that one anymore.
It's too mainstream.
You also had that one
about what it would be like
If tater tots had legs.
Oh, yeah, so provocative.
No, I want to submit the song
I wrote in my dream.
It was amazing, but...
[grunts]
What was it?
I can't remember.
Well, what was the rest
of your dream about?
Maybe if you
walk yourself through it,
You'll get your song back?
Okay.
I was on a bus
With a few other people.
It was the kind of bus
With a bathroom on it.
-[linda] ooh, fancy.
-[gene] and it was
Sort of, like, a boat-bus.
It was driving
on top of the ocean.
And it docked
at this cool little island,
And there was a beach volleyball
game going on
And suddenly I was in the game.
And I was not good at it,
But I think I showed
a lot of hustle.
And then I saw a robot,
But it was also
ms. Merkin, somehow.
-[louise] makes sense.
-[gene] and then
robot ms. Merkin
Points to, like,
a lighthouse type thing
And tells me to go to the top.
And then I climb
this big staircase.
And then, when I get to the top,
I see my keyboard,
but it's bigger
And sparkly. And then
I sit down
and I write the best song
I've ever written
in my entire life.
And... [groans]
aah!
I can't remember it!
There's always
tater tots with legs.
"hot tot to trot"
isn't good enough.
I want them to hear
my song and say, "wow,
"this song will probably save
the world someday
"by stopping all the wars
and curing all diseases.
Even the common cold.
And most of lupus."
Totally reasonable expectation.
Come on, gene, think.
Stop looking at me, eggs.
I'll get to you in a minute.
Well, honey,
I'm sorry you forgot your song,
But I'm glad you got
some sleep last night.
'cause I sure didn't.
-The cricket?
-Yeah, the cricket.
-I put my pillow over my head.
-Did you kids hear it?
-No.
-Maybe.
-Sometimes.
The damn thing is hiding
Somewhere in our apartment.
You're quiet now, cricket,
But I know what you're planning.
You're gonna sneak out later
and chirp all night.
I kind of like it.
But it doesn't wake me up,
so, yeah.
Mom, are you sure you're not
just hearing your nose whistle?
That's going on
at the same time.
It's a different pitch.
Cricket, if you're listening
to me right now,
You're not cute,
you're not cool
And you don't have
any friends here,
So you should just leave.
But still believe in yourself.
[gene]
ugh.
What was the song?
Was it something about
The world, maybe? Or...
Roller blades?
Aah! Brain,
Why are you keeping
this song from me?
I thought we were bros.
Brains, right?
Wait, what are we talking about?
I'm trying to remember the song
I wrote in my dream last night
And I can't, and it's the worst
thing to happen to anyone ever.
You also said that
when mac and cheese Monday
Moved to Wednesday.
Ah, I still don't know
what they were thinking.
Gene, maybe there's a way
to have the same dream again?
Like, what if tonight
you do all the exact same stuff
-You did yesterday before bed?
-Interesting.
Some things you did last night
I don't ever want
to smell again.
Maybe don't redo that.
Whatever it takes.
I once dreamt
I was wearing flip flops,
And I never wear flip flops.
Wow. You are wild
in your dreams.
I know. I couldn't get back
to sleep after.
[cricket chirping]
Ugh, damn cricket.
You keep saying that. Maybe you
could just think it next time?
Gene, explain to me again why
you wanted last night's lasagna.
I told you, I need to recreate
Exactly what I did last night
So I can have
the same exact dream
And remember
the amazing song I wrote.
Is that--
does that work?
Well, that's what rudy said.
If you have any other ideas,
father, feel free to share them.
I... I will.
Finished. Now, I'm gonna change
Into last night's pajamas--
Aka my only pajamas--
And brush my teeth
with tina's toothbrush
Because that's what
I accidentally did last night.
-Wait, what?
-Good night, everyone.
It's 7:00 p.M., gene.
I need all the time I can get.
This is a real "you don't
snooze, you lose" situation.
-[cricket chirps]
-there's the cricket again.
-You hear him, right?
-[louise] a little.
I kind of hear something.
I guess I'm glad
my ears are old.
Ugh. I would pay
a million dollars
For someone to find that cricket
and get it out of here.
Really? Tina and I could find
that cricket for you.
-We could?
-Yeah.
-But not kill it, right?
-No, no.
We'll trap it, give it
a new name, new identity,
A fresh start somewhere else.
So, is a million, like,
a jumping-off point
And we negotiate from there?
If this is for real,
I'll give you a dollar.
-Twenty dollars.
-Ten, because I'm desperate.
And you'll split it.
That's my final offer.
-Deal.
-Yay.
Flipping my blanket over
so the tag tickles my face
And annoys me,
just like last night.
And knocking over my water glass
With just a little water in it
And cleaning it up with
the underwear on the floor.
And now I'll climb into bed.
Come on, gene, fall asleep.
Fall asleep,
fall asleep, fall asleep.
How is this not working?
Fall asleep, fall asleep.
Fall asleep. Fall asleep.
Fall asleep.
Mm. Mm. Mm. Mm.
Mmm.
No. Not salami. Song.
Salami. Salami. Salami. Salami.
[yawns] it's morning?
No!
Mr. Ambrose, where would
I find a book about dreams?
Why are you looking for that?
Because I wrote
the perfect song in my dream
And I can't remember any of it.
Well, we don't have anything
like that, sir.
[whispers]
meet me in periodicals.
-Lucid dreaming.
-What?
Lucid dreaming is having
control over your dreams
-And what happens in them.
-You can do that?
[whispers] follow me
to the reference section.
-Yes, I can do that.
-What do you lucid dream about?
I do revenge stuff
on people who were mean to me
In high school, some fantasy
and science fiction,
Some adult stuff
I can't tell you about.
It's hard to have the exact same
dream twice, but it's doable.
So I could learn
how to lucid dream, too?
You could.
[whispers]
come with me to the classics.
Why do we have to have
this meeting
In so many different spots?
Are we trying
to shake a tail or something?
No, I just have to re-shelve
all these books.
Oh. So, is there a book
about lucid dreaming?
No, because we don't
have any good books.
-Internet?
-Internet.
-Can I use a computer?
-The computers here?
Sure, if you want to get
hand, foot, and mouth disease.
Worth it. I'm gonna lucid dream
my way to a grammy.
Or at least to the top
of the pops.
-Thank you, mr. Ambrose.
-Shh! [whispers] we never spoke.
Why is this stuff
all over the hallway?
Is this a new, terrible way
of recycling?
These are cricket traps, dad.
Really good ones.
Yeah, breadcrumbs and sugar
covered with newspaper.
It said online that crickets
are attracted to the food
But then they can't get out
from under the newspaper.
And also they have something
to read while they wait for us
To take them outside.
Or, if the cricket
prefers a nice bottle,
It can try to get this food in
here and then it gets trapped.
But why are there so many traps?
It's just one cricket.
Whatever it takes, bob.
This cricket's a psychopath
and I want him out.
Yeah, dad,
we put traps everywhere--
The hallway, kitchen,
bedrooms, bathrooms--
This cricket's messed with the
wrong frickin' cricket hunters!
-Hell yeah.
-Okay.
We're pretty amped,
we drank a lot of soda
So we could use
the bottles for traps.
Um, so there's bread and sugar
On the floor under
these pieces of newspaper?
-Yup.
-So, we're getting rid
of the cricket but gaining
A ton of ants?
Ants don't make noise.
I'm fine with ants.
Okay, ready for bed,
and I'm off to lucid dream
My way to songwriting success.
-What about dinner?
-Already had it.
Mom made me
the sleepy beepy special,
A turkey sandwich,
a big glass of warm milk.
I did some wind-down yoga,
had my pre-bed pee
And now I'm off
to dreamsachusetts.
How do you control your dreams?
I mean, I'm not
not interested.
It's a lot of waking yourself up
And writing down
what you just dreamt.
I'm not exactly sure
how it works.
I like everything
except the waking yourself up
And the writing
stuff down parts.
-Well, good night, family.
-Good early evening.
And no more sounds whatsoever
in the apartment.
Thank you so much.
Got my notebook, got my pencil,
Now let's get lucid goose-id.
[groaning]
♪ ♪
[gasps] it's the boat-bus
from my dream.
Wait! Wait for me,
dreamy boat-bus. I'm coming!
Wait!
Oh, my god, oh, my god.
It started to work.
I wrote my dreams down
in this notebook
And then I started
to lucid dream.
I saw the boat-bus
from the dream
Where I wrote my song and
I made myself chase after it.
Mr. Ambrose is a genius.
-Wow, that's great, gene.
-Yeah, my little dream catcher.
Nothing.
No crickets in any traps.
Don't like hearing that.
No cricket yet, mother.
Keep that $20 safe and warm.
Ten. I said ten.
Oh, I just assumed
there'd be a gratuity
-Or a performance bonus
of some kind?
-Ten.
Okay, okay, the contest deadline
is the day after tomorrow.
So, trying not to stress out,
but that means
I only have two nights
to remember my song
Or else I won't have
anything to submit.
Just to say,
all the time and work
You're putting into
remembering your dream,
You probably could have
written a new song by now.
Dad, I wrote the perfect song.
If you made the perfect burger
but you couldn't remember it
And your dad said,
"oh, just make another one,"
What would you do?
How mad would you be?
I wouldn't be mad.
I would think he's pretty smart
and that's good advice.
If I win this contest
and then I get a record deal,
On the liner notes I'm gonna
write, "no thanks to dad."
That should be
the name of your album.
-Ooh.
-[bob grunts]
Hey, hey, hey.
Hold that bus.
Oh, my god.
I'm controlling this.
The bus is waiting for me.
I'm on the bus.
What?
Airplane? No!
-Peanuts or pretzels?
-Ooh, pretzels, please.
Okay, back on the boat-bus.
And it's still a boat-bus.
Going good.
♪ the wheels on the bus
go round and round. ♪
Mom? You're not supposed
to be here.
-Well, what about them?
-♪ round and round. ♪
Yes, the island.
I made it to the island.
Volleyball.
[grunts]
Giant cricket?
No.
[groans]
-[cricket chirping]
-where is it coming from? There?
-Or there?
-I can't tell.
It's throwing its voice.
Wh-what's going on?
Why are you guys out here?
We were checking our traps
And now we're listening
to the cricket
Mocking us, I assume.
You're all up, too?
Nobody can sleep
'cause of that damn cricket.
No, we're checking traps.
Uh, I'm out here
because I have to pee.
-Oh, now I have to pee.
-Me too. Kind of.
Well, now I have to go, too.
I call first.
-Second.
-Third.
-Great. That's great.
-[cricket chirps]
[grunts]
Volleyball hit.
Okay, that went over there.
But this is good.
Oh.
Go up to the tippy top
of the lighthouse.
Okay, I will, robot ms. Merkin.
-What?
Darn it.
[groans]
And I'm opening
the lighthouse door...
Yes, staircase. [laughs]
I'm so much better
At climbing stairs in my dream
than in real life.
[gasps]
My keyboard.
It's so beautiful.
Okay, here we go.
Oh, my god.
What?
What's happening?
Don't turn into mush, casio.
That's not good
for music playing.
[groans]
[whimpers]
No!
Ugh.
Aah!
Ugh, I'm so close.
Why is my brain holding me back?
Doesn't it care
About the ultimate online
songwriting showdown?
-[cricket chirps]
-I'm not talking to you,
cricket!
Ugh. I lucid-dreamed
all the way back
To where I played the song,
but then nothing.
I hit a brick wall, literally.
I think at one point
the keyboard
Turned into a brick wall.
Oh, I'm sorry, sweetie.
Eat your eggs.
I promise they won't turn into
bricks or flowers or whatever.
I don't think.
It's a new recipe.
The songwriting contest
deadline is tomorrow
At midnight. I need to get back
into my dream asap.
Can I skip school
and go back to sleep?
-No.
-Ugh.
You people don't get it.
Your priorities
are all out of whack.
Well, speaking
of not getting it...
Louise, tina,
you didn't get the cricket.
And I didn't get any sleep.
I'm telling you, lin,
lay on your side,
Pillow over the ear.
It's like your head
is in a sandwich
And you won't hear a thing.
I don't want to
live like that, bob.
Sleeping in a pillow sandwich.
Sorry, girls, I think
I got to call an exterminator.
-[louise] what?
-[tina] no.
-Yep.
Either that or we move.
Mom, give us one more chance.
-We'll catch him.
-Yeah.
This cricket-- he's smart.
Possibly brilliant.
We underestimated him before
But we won't make
that mistake again.
I'm actually glad
he's so clever, so crafty.
-He's raising our game.
-He is? That's nice.
Mom, obviously,
we'll have to charge more.
This cricket is probably
genetically engineered.
Maybe he escaped from a lab.
Anyway, should we say an extra
ten bucks for hazard pay?
Same money.
Catch it today or exterminator.
Fine. We're gonna stick it
to that cricket.
But not in a bad way.
[weak chuckle]
We're still
friendly cricket hunters.
Helpers, you might say.
It's getting late.
You-you guys
should go to school.
You just want us to leave.
That's partly true.
How am I supposed
to go to school
When my entire career in music
is on the line?
Even successful musicians
Went to sixth grade, gene.
That's a myth.
Mr. Ambrose.
It's lunch.
Why are you here?
And don't say you want
to tell me your dream.
What I'd like to do
is sing you my dream,
But I can't
because I get all un-lucidy.
Something isn't working
and I don't know what it is.
Listen, it takes practice.
What do you want me to say?
Not that.
I need to get to
The end of the dream tonight.
Ugh. Please.
Eating.
Librarians need
a lunch break, too, you know?
[whispers]
or several lunch breaks.
-Don't tell anyone.
-[gene] ugh.
This might be
an awkward time to ask,
But you don't happen to have any
books about crickets, do you?
Catching them, specifically?
-Or driving them away, nicely.
-Crickets?
Yes, please. Smart crickets.
I don't know if the section
is divided that way,
But this is a smart cricket
we're dealing with.
[sighs] you, things take time.
Try and relax.
-I can't relax.
-Well, you have to!
That's not relaxing to hear!
And you two--
insects and other invertebrates.
-Don't call us that.
-Behind you.
-Next to reptiles.
-Oh, yeah, there it is.
But which one do you think
is the best--
I'm eating my lunch!
Let me finish my ziti!
-[student] shh.
-You don't "shh!" I "shh!"
[cricket chirps]
Um, why does the apartment
smell weirdly good?
We're smoking out
the cricket, dad.
We did more research
and found out that crickets
Hate the smell of lemons,
cinnamon, and peppermint.
We didn't have peppermint,
so we're using
The breath mints
from mom's purse.
Well, I didn't think
there could be
Any more food on the floor,
but I guess
I was wrong to not think that.
Yes, you were. So, the cricket
Will get grossed out
by mom's mints...
-Hey.
-And come out of hiding,
And then he'll get seduced
by one of our many traps.
-Many, many traps.
-I'm off to bed.
Yup, your new thing
where you go to bed at dusk.
Uh-huh. The deadline
for the contest is tomorrow,
So no pressure.
Just all riding on this.
You know, you're putting
a lot on this contest
That you found on the internet.
A panel of industry experts
are going to evaluate my work
And tell me if I have "it"
or not. I need to know.
Also, it's sponsored
by that company
That makes the water bottles
with the shoulder straps.
Mm-hmm. Yup.
[grunts]
Here we go.
[chords playing]
Yes. It's working.
[vocalizes]
♪ Saturday is when
the week is done ♪
♪ and you want
to have some fun ♪
♪ Saturday is the day
that comes before Sunday ♪
♪ but it's still full of sun ♪
♪ and you heat your buns
in the sun ♪
♪ you heat your buns ♪
♪ in the sun ♪
♪ you heat your buns in the ♪
♪ su-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-- ♪
♪ un. ♪
That was good.
-Yeah. Good.
-Yeah.
-Really?
-Y-yes.
And it's factual.
Saturday does come
before Sunday.
-Yes, it does.
-Mm-hmm. Mm.
-Yup, yup.
Oh, my god, my song stinks.
No...
My dream lied to me!
This song isn't good at all.
Ugh!
My subconscious
is a total b-hole!
[groans] my so-called
perfect song is awful.
It's not bad. That much.
Yeah, I mean, it had a beat.
I think.
It just has not-great lyrics
and a not-great melody,
But aside from that,
it was pretty good.
Ugh. I'm just gonna
e-mail the contest
And tell them I'm withdrawing
because the song I wrote
That I thought was amazing
is actually terrible.
Do you need to e-mail them?
I think they'll want to know
what's going on with me.
Gene, you kind of wrote
that song in your sleep.
Yes. Your point?
Well, a lot of times,
if something comes too easily,
It's usually not as good
as you think it might be.
-[groans]
-[bob] uh, I'm just saying,
In my experience,
To make something great,
you have to work at it.
How do you know? Oh, right,
the burger thing you do.
Yeah. I mean, you know,
on a good day.
[sighs]
I think
I'm just gonna go to my room
and moan in private.
-Aw.
-[moans]
-Do you want your keyboard?
-[grunts] okay.
-At least you aren't covered
in sparkles and lies.
-Aw.
-So, little cricket update.
-You mean the cricket
That the exterminator's
coming tomorrow to get rid of?
No, the cricket that we're
closing in on and we guarantee
Will be trapped tonight
because we have this.
The most beautiful cricket
anyone's ever seen.
Mr. Chirpy sees her, falls
in love, jumps in the bottle.
Kisses it and probably assumes
it's gonna come to life.
Or, if she's not his type, she
also makes a great best friend.
-She's a good listener.
-This plan can't possibly work.
You would say that
if you weren't
As desperate as we are.
And maybe nobody's
-Been stupid enough to try this.
-Until us.
Good luck. She's pretty
but she also looks dumb.
Why, 'cause her eyes are
crossed? That was an accident.
♪ ♪
[gene]
♪ I chased after a dream ♪
♪ it all seemed so simple ♪
♪ but get close to a star ♪
♪ and you can't see it twinkle ♪
♪ some dreams are you wanting ♪
♪ but not doing ♪
♪ or making ♪
♪ the feeling is haunting ♪
♪ but remember ♪
♪ when waking ♪
♪ chase the dream in real life ♪
♪ don't go back to sleep ♪
♪ the dream's ♪
♪ like a night-light ♪
♪ it's only there
to help you see ♪
♪ or for when
you have to pee... ♪
Lookee, lookee,
we caught a crickee.
I can't believe it.
You did it.
So the girl cricket worked?
Eh, in a way.
We caught him
in a different trap,
But we'd like to think that
she gave him a little fomo.
And we did put her in with him
now and, I don't know,
It seems like maybe
there's some chemistry.
Look at you, you little menace.
I'd ask you what
you have to say for yourself,
But I don't want to hear
another peep from you, ever.
All right, mom.
Time to settle the bill.
You earned it.
Here you go, five dollars each.
Now, let's clean up these traps.
-Yes. Please.
-And get the cricket
out of here already.
And put him in the restaurant?
We do this all again tomorrow?
-No.
[gene]
♪ I chased the dream ♪
♪ like a ship lost at sea ♪
♪ should've chased
the thing in my dream ♪
♪ the thing that is me ♪
♪ I chased the dream ♪
♪ like they say ♪
♪ you're supposed to ♪
♪ but chase the thing
in the dream ♪
♪ that your heart
wants to show you. ♪
Well?
-Gene, it's...
-It's amazing
And all the radio stations
on the planet
Are gonna want to play it
and I'm gonna be rich!
Sorry, what were you guys
gonna say?
[chuckling] I-I'm glad
you believe in yourself again.
And, yes,
it really is a good song.
It really is.
Like, really.
Not like when we were
saying it before.
I like both songs,
but this one a little...
-A lot better.
-So, did you send it in
to the contest?
No way. I'm not wasting
my song on that.
Wait, what?
You know how
those contests work.
They make you sign away
the rights to everything.
And this song is gonna be
the first single
From my debut
platinum double album
The best of gene belcher.
-Okay, good plan.
-Mm-hmm.
Oh, look, mint on the floor.
What? Can't be from us.
We cleaned.
Yeah, and we were so thorough.
-[bob grunts]
-mmm, mmm, mmm.
I earned this floor mint.
[linda] you sure did, honey.
♪ tater tots with legs ♪
♪ hot tot to trot ♪
♪ zebras wearing bras ♪
♪ zebras, zebras ♪
♪ salami, salami ♪
♪ salami,
salami ♪
♪ salami, salami ♪
♪ salami. ♪
Captioning sponsored by
bento box entertainment
And toyota.
Captioned by
media access group at wgbh
access.Wgbh.Org